[OKTA-798712] TOC and links changes (#5108)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/monitor/index.md

# Monitor Okta

Okta offers monitoring and alerting capabilities through Okta's APIs, SDKs, and Admin Console. All [supported events](/docs/reference/api/event-types/) within your Okta organization (org) are captured and available through system logs. This allows you to do the following:

* Determine connectivity status from global internet locations to your Okta org
* Identify trends related to users, apps, policies, and other Okta entities
* Detect tasks that require action, such as unlocking a user or restarting an agent
* Detect suspicious activities
* Review user-reported suspicious activities
* Detect and augment certain events

> * Avoid exceeding API usage limits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid exceeding API use limits
```

## Send alerts to an external service

Your org may have an external web service that performs extra processing for specific Okta events, such as creating or deactivating a user lifecycle event. Okta provides a webhook feature called [event hooks](/docs/concepts/event-hooks/). They let you set up triggers at specific events in Okta to send event payloads to an external web service. Event hooks are asynchronous and don't affect existing Okta workflows.

For an example of an end-to-end event hook setup, see the [Event hooks guide](/docs/guides/event-hook-implementation/). For a list of events that support event hooks, see the [Event Types catalog](/docs/reference/api/event-types/#catalog) and search with the parameter `event-hook-eligible`.

## Monitor Okta with your custom tool

You can build custom apps to monitor and analyze events in Okta using Okta SDKs and APIs.

> * For a [REST API](/docs/reference/rest/) implementation, use the [System Log API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/SystemLog/) to retrieve system logs in your Okta org from the last 90 days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a [REST API](/docs/reference/rest/) implementation, use the [System Log API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/SystemLog/) to retrieve system logs in your Okta org from the last 90 days.
```

> * For a [Node.js](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-nodejs) implementation, use the [getLog()](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-nodejs#get-logs) method to retrieve system logs in your Okta org from the last 90 days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a [Node.js](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-nodejs) implementation, use the [getLog()](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-nodejs#get-logs) method to retrieve system logs in your Okta org from the last 90 days.
```

> * For an [okta-sdk-java](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-java) implementation, use the [getLogs()](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-java#list-system-logs) method to retrieve system logs in your Okta org from the last 90 days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For an [okta-sdk-java](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-java) implementation, use the [getLogs()](https://github.com/okta/okta-sdk-java#list-system-logs) method to retrieve system logs in your Okta org from the last 90 days.
```

Refer to the supported [Event Types catalog](/docs/reference/api/event-types/#catalog) for the list of events you can use to filter for the system logs you're interested in.

See [Useful System Log Queries](https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/Useful-System-Log-Queries?language=en_US&_ga=2.122976834.831546547.1618838361-957571954.1617637001) for common system log query use cases.

> **NOTE**: When you test your custom monitoring tool, use the Admin Console for verification or troubleshooting purposes. Compare the system logs from the Admin Console with the system logs received in your custom tool.

## Download system logs for analysis

> You can use the Admin Console to manually download CSV files containing query results of system logs. Use them for analysis or send them to a data warehouse or lake. See [System Logs](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_Reports_SysLog).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Admin Console to manually download CSV files that contain query results of system logs. Use them for analysis or send them to a data warehouse or lake. See [System Logs](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_Reports_SysLog).
```

## Monitor rate limit warnings and violations

> To mitigate denial-of-service attacks and abusive actions, Okta enforces rate limits on API requests as well as other user inbound and outbound operations. See [Rate limit overview](/docs/reference/rate-limits/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate denial-of-service attacks and abusive actions, Okta enforces rate limits on API requests as well as other user inbound and outbound operations. See the [Rate limit overview](/docs/reference/rate-limits/).
```

> Monitor and review the [system log events for rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-system-log-events/) to detect rate limit warnings or violations. Use the information in these event logs to investigate access spikes, abusive actions, or traffic trends. You can set up notification emails or notifications displayed in the Admin Console banner for admins. See [Set up rate limit notifications](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-set-up-rate-limit-notifs) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitor and review the [system log events for rate limits](/docs/reference/rl-system-log-events/) to detect rate limit warnings or violations. Use the information in these event logs to investigate access spikes, abusive actions, or traffic trends. You can set up notification emails or notifications that appear in the Admin Console banner for admins. See [Set up rate limit notifications](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-set-up-rate-limit-notifs).
```
